>> Pete DeBettignies: So I'm gonna go
tonight during happy hour or hamburger,
whatever y'all are gonna do, or
tomorrow on my plane back home, or for
those of you who are in the Minnesota
area, I'm gonna hop on, pick a registrar,
GoDaddy or whatever, and
I'm gonna go get a domain name for
myself if I already don't have one.
So I picked up mnheadhunter.com in
2005 cuz I started writing my blog.
And I didn't know what to call it back
then I figured since I was a Minnesota
headhunter I was a rocket scientist what
all I should get mnheadhunter.com right?
Then a friend of mine about
nine months later was like,
did you get minnesotaheadhunter.com
like no why would I do that?
I should probably go do that.
So then I picked up.
I now have but
I want to get my domain name.
Okay, usually it's going to be I got,
I got mnheadhunter.com because
no one can spell or pronounce.
Right, It's not an easily searched word.
But if I can get first name, last name,
last name.com,
I got tossed in the middle initial.
If there is something about you that has
been with you during your lifetime that
you want to be known about,
it could be some of you might form an LLC.
And become an independent contractor in
the next months or a year, I would go and
get that domain name,
like right away, okay.
The idea in I have this funky
little bike tire there.
The ideas you need to find a hub for
you online, right.
So, whether it's your future business
card, if it's anything where you're going
to be public you want people to go to
one place and then spoke out from there.
For some of you it actually will end up
being just LinkedIn and that's okay too.
But you are now front end web developers.
You are not entry level.
You are now a junior developer,
you're a front end developer, so
you you will be able to
make your own website.
I would caution you with this, so
many people create their own website and
then forget about it for two years.
And then I'm judging you on the thing
that you built two years ago.
Make sure that you're
updating these things.
Okay?
We unfortunately make some
snap judgments now and again,
so if you're really talented front end
developer and you're saying on LinkedIn,
your resume, you can do all your things
and I go to your website, and it sucks.
Just be cognizant of that
as you getting into this.
But the idea then is from there though,
then you've got links to LinkedIn and
GitHub and Twitter, contact me more
stuff about your portfolio and
the sites that you've helped to create.
You need to find a presence
online that you own.
So I'm gonna talk a little bit
about building a portfolio.
You and I were talking earlier about
the changes you've made to your website
just while you've been here.
And I would strongly encourage you
all to do the before and after stuff.
So if you didn't get the photos before
since I gave you this brilliant advice,
you could screenshot how
your website looks now and
view it again now two weeks from now,
six months ago whatever it's going to be.
And you can start showing
people here's how
I as a junior developer
have expanded my horizons.
This is how I took what was and
turned it to something else.
Because you're going to need to I
don't wanna use the word prue but
validate to a future employer
that they want to hire you.
And if you could say, well,
this is the before and this is the after.
Okay, I want you to be able to do that.
So take screenshots for those of you
who already are into building websites,
like get the metrics of those websites.
For those of you who will be doing it and
so
18 months from now you made a new feature,
you did a new thing to the website and
traffic went up 17%,
12% whatever it might be.
Average time on the website went from
45 seconds to three and a half minutes.
But document this stuff will show you how
to do that a little while though, okay?
Because you want to be able to make it so
that when you're doing your resume your
LinkedIn profile for your interview
that you're going to have one day.
Because I did this,
this result happened and
this is the impact it had on a business's
bottom line, increased cost.
Don't do that one, increased costs,
increase sales cut costs,
we increased the email newsletter by 17%.
Right, make us that you could document
these things that you've been doing so
that you can show a future employer.
But that idea of you created a feature.
And this is how it was, this is how it
has changed you have four screenshots.
Employers are going to dig on that
stuff in the very beginning because
these are things you're going to rely on.
Because you don't have a seven
year track record yet.
Okay.